# scikit-image meeting 2019-12-06

Join via [Zoom](https://monash.zoom.us/j/284282585)

Present: Marianne, Lars, Emma

## Minutes

### Introducing ourselves

Marianne: physics and research background, former plotly employee, now
independent researcher and developer in Milan, Italy

Lars: finishing a master in electrical engineering in Dresden, Germany, doing
research on ultrasonic imaging for the brain.

Emma: background in research in materials science, on leave from academia to
work with plotly in Montreal, funded by CZI to work on scikit-image and
plotly/Dash.

### Content of CZI grant

 - funds 50% of Emma and ~10% of Marianne on scikit-image work. 
 - Work packages
    - Community support: help reviewing PRs in particular. Don't hesitate to
      ping Emma if one of your PRs requires attention (and Emma will be ping
      someone else if required ;-).
    - Writing documentation, in particular relevant for life sciences. Open PR
      on pooch by Mark will be very useful for using larger datasets. Marianne: do we
      also need more narrative documentation? Lars also shared https://www.divio.com/blog/documentation/, a blog post about the different types of documentation.
    - Acceleration of some scikit-image where performance is critical.
      Approach: start with benchmarks, then try different strategies (based on
apply_parallel in particular) 

### Upcoming conferences and workshops

- [Lars] Hackaton in Dresden next week, targeted to the Fiji/ImageJ and KNIME community but they want to explore how Python-based frameworks can continue to grow closer
- [Emma] probably will submit an abstract to Pycon (deadline coming soon!)

### Action items

- Go through the list of approved pull requests
- PR #4209 from Lars: Emma will review to check if the ordering of pixels is ok
  and doesn't change the expected behaviour of the algorithm.

